README.md, before:

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@netlify/framework-info.svg)](https://npmjs.org/package/@netlify/framework-info)
[![Coverage Status](https://codecov.io/gh/netlify/framework-info/branch/main/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/netlify/framework-info)
[![Build](https://github.com/netlify/framework-info/workflows/Build/badge.svg)](https://github.com/netlify/framework-info/actions)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@netlify/framework-info.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@netlify/framework-info)

Framework detection utility.

Detects which framework a specific website is using. The framework's build/dev commands, directories and server port are
also returned.

The following frameworks are detected:

- Static site generators: Gatsby, Hugo, Jekyll, Next.js, Nuxt, Hexo, Gridsome, Docusaurus, Eleventy, Middleman,
  Phenomic, React-static, Stencil, Vuepress, Assemble, DocPad, Harp, Metalsmith, Roots, Wintersmith
- Front-end frameworks: create-react-app, Vue, Sapper, Angular, Ember, Svelte, Expo, Quasar
- Build tools: Parcel, Brunch, Grunt, Gulp

If you're looking for a way to run `framework-info` via CLI check the
[`build-info`](https://github.com/netlify/build-info) project.

[Additions and updates are welcome!](#add-or-update-a-framework)

# Example (Node.js)

```js
import { listFrameworks, hasFramework, getFramework } from '@netlify/framework-info'

console.log(await listFrameworks({ projectDir: './path/to/gatsby/website' }))
// [
//   {
//     id: 'gatsby',
//     name: 'Gatsby',
//     category: 'static_site_generator',
//     dev: {
//       commands: ['gatsby develop'],
//       port: 8000,
//       pollingStrategies: [{ name: 'TCP' }, { name: 'HTTP' }]
//     },
//     build: {
//       commands: ['gatsby build'],
//       directory: 'public'
//     },
//     staticAssetsDirectory: "static",
//     env: { GATSBY_LOGGER: 'yurnalist' },
//     plugins: []
//   }
// ]

console.log(await listFrameworks({ projectDir: './path/to/vue/website' }))
// [
//   {
//     id: 'vue',
//     name: 'Vue.js',
//     category: 'frontend_framework',
//     dev: {
//       commands: ['npm run serve'],
//       port: 8080,
//       pollingStrategies: [{ name: 'TCP' }, { name: 'HTTP' }]
//     },
//     build: {
//       commands: ['vue-cli-service build'],
//       directory: 'dist'
//     },
//     env: {},
//     plugins: []
//   }
// ]

console.log(await hasFramework('vue', { projectDir: './path/to/vue/website' }))
// true

console.log(await getFramework('vue', { projectDir: './path/to/vue/website' }))
// {
//   id: 'vue',
//   name: 'Vue.js',
//   category: 'frontend_framework',
//   dev: {
//     commands: ['npm run serve'],
//     port: 8080,
//     pollingStrategies: [{ name: 'TCP' }, { name: 'HTTP' }]
//   },
//   build: {
//     commands: ['vue-cli-service build'],
//     directory: 'dist'
//   },
//   env: {},
//   plugins: []
// }
```

# Installation

```bash
npm install @netlify/framework-info
```

# Usage (Node.js)

## listFrameworks(options?)

`options`: `object?`\
_Return value_: `Promise<object[]>`

### Options

#### projectDir

_Type_: `string`\
_Default value_: `process.cwd()`

Path to the website's directory.

### Return value

This returns a `Promise` resolving to an array of objects describing each framework. The array can be empty, contain a
single object or several objects.

Each object has the following properties.

#### id

_Type_: `string`

Id such as `"gatsby"`.

## name

_Type_: `string`

Framework name such as `"Gatsby"`.

#### category

_Type_: `string`

Category among `"static_site_generator"`, `"frontend_framework"` and `"build_tool"`.

#### dev

_Type_: `object`

Information about the dev command.

##### commands

_Type_: `string[]`

Dev command. There might be several alternatives.

##### port

_Type_: `number`

Server port.

##### pollingStrategies

_Type_: `object[]`

Polling strategies to use when checking if the dev server is ready.

#### build

_Type_: `object`

Information about the build command.

##### commands

_Type_: `string[]`

Build command. There might be several alternatives.

##### directory

_Type_: `string`

Relative path to the directory where files are built.

#### staticAssetsDirectory

_Type_: `string`

Directory where the framework stores static assets. Can be `undefined`.

#### env

_Type_: `object`

Environment variables that should be set when calling the dev command.

#### plugins

_Type_: `string[]`

A list of recommend Netlify build plugins to install for the framework.

## hasFramework(frameworkId, options?)

`options`: `object?`\
_Return value_: `Promise<boolean>`

Same as [`listFramework()`](#listframeworksoptions) except only for a specific framework and returns a boolean.

## getFramework(frameworkId, options?)

`options`: `object?`\
_Return value_: `Promise<object>`

Same as [`listFramework()`](#listframeworksoptions) except the framework is passed as argument instead of being
detected. A single framework object is returned.

# Usage (CLI)

```bash
$ framework-info [projectDirectory]
```

This prints the ids of each framework.

If known is found, `unknown` is printed.

Available flags:

- `--long`: Show more information about each framework. The output will be a JSON array.

# Add or update a framework

Each framework is a JSON file in the `/src/frameworks/` directory. For example:

```json
{
  "id": "gatsby",
  "name": "Gatsby",
  "category": "static_site_generator",
  "detect": {
    "npmDependencies": ["gatsby"],
    "excludedNpmDependencies": [],
    "configFiles": ["gatsby-config.js"]
  },
  "dev": {
    "command": "gatsby develop",
    "port": 8000,
    "pollingStrategies": [{ "name": "TCP" }, { "name": "HTTP" }]
  },
  "build": {
    "command": "gatsby build",
    "directory": "public"
  },
  "staticAssetsDirectory": "static",
  "env": { "GATSBY_LOGGER": "yurnalist" },
  "plugins": []
}
```

All properties are required.

## id

_Type_: `string`

Id of the framework.

## name

_Type_: `string`

Name of the framework.

## category

_Type_: `string`

One of `"static_site_generator"`, `"frontend_framework"` or `"build_tool"`.

## detect

_Type_: `object`

Information used to detect this framework

### npmDependencies

_Type_: `string[]`

Framework's npm packages. Any project with one of those packages in their `package.json` (`dependencies` or
`devDependencies`) will be considered as using the framework.

If empty, this is ignored.

### excludedNpmDependencies

_Type_: `string[]`

Inverse of `npmDependencies`. If any project is using one of those packages, it will not be considered as using the
framework.

If empty, this is ignored.

### configFiles

_Type_: `string[]`

Framework's configuration files. Those should be paths relative to the [project's directory](#projectdir). Any project
with one of configuration files will be considered as using the framework.

If empty, this is ignored.

## dev

_Type_: `object`

Parameters to detect the dev command.

### command

_Type_: `string`

Default dev command.

### port

_Type_: `number`

Local dev server port.

### pollingStrategies

_Type_: `object[]`

Polling strategies to use when checking if the dev server is ready.

## build

_Type_: `object`

Parameters to detect the build command.

### command

_Type_: `string`

Default build command.

### directory

_Type_: `string`

Directory where built files are written to.

## staticAssetsDirectory

_Type_: `string`

Directory where the framework stores static assets where relevant for the framework.

## env

_Type_: `object`

Environment variables that should be set when running the dev command.

## plugins

_Type_: `object[]`

A list of Netlify build plugins package names and conditions. If a condition is met for a plugin it will be returned in
the framework's plugin's list.

For example

```json
{
  "plugins": [
    {
      "packageName": "@netlify/plugin-nextjs",
      "condition": { "minNodeVersion": "10.13.0" }
    }
  ]
}
```

Commit message:

docs: add deprecation notice
depends on https://github.com/netlify/build/pull/4783

README.md, after:

> # **Important Notice**
>
> This repository was moved into the mono repository of [github.com/netlify/build](https://github.com/netlify/build)
> The package name and the versions are preserved!


[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@netlify/framework-info.svg)](https://npmjs.org/package/@netlify/framework-info)
[![Coverage Status](https://codecov.io/gh/netlify/framework-info/branch/main/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/netlify/framework-info)
[![Build](https://github.com/netlify/framework-info/workflows/Build/badge.svg)](https://github.com/netlify/framework-info/actions)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@netlify/framework-info.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@netlify/framework-info)

Framework detection utility.

Detects which framework a specific website is using. The framework's build/dev commands, directories and server port are
also returned.

The following frameworks are detected:

- Static site generators: Gatsby, Hugo, Jekyll, Next.js, Nuxt, Hexo, Gridsome, Docusaurus, Eleventy, Middleman,
  Phenomic, React-static, Stencil, Vuepress, Assemble, DocPad, Harp, Metalsmith, Roots, Wintersmith
- Front-end frameworks: create-react-app, Vue, Sapper, Angular, Ember, Svelte, Expo, Quasar
- Build tools: Parcel, Brunch, Grunt, Gulp

If you're looking for a way to run `framework-info` via CLI check the
[`build-info`](https://github.com/netlify/build-info) project.

[Additions and updates are welcome!](#add-or-update-a-framework)

# Example (Node.js)

```js
import { listFrameworks, hasFramework, getFramework } from '@netlify/framework-info'

console.log(await listFrameworks({ projectDir: './path/to/gatsby/website' }))
// [
//   {
//     id: 'gatsby',
//     name: 'Gatsby',
//     category: 'static_site_generator',
//     dev: {
//       commands: ['gatsby develop'],
//       port: 8000,
//       pollingStrategies: [{ name: 'TCP' }, { name: 'HTTP' }]
//     },
//     build: {
//       commands: ['gatsby build'],
//       directory: 'public'
//     },
//     staticAssetsDirectory: "static",
//     env: { GATSBY_LOGGER: 'yurnalist' },
//     plugins: []
//   }
// ]

console.log(await listFrameworks({ projectDir: './path/to/vue/website' }))
// [
//   {
//     id: 'vue',
//     name: 'Vue.js',
//     category: 'frontend_framework',
//     dev: {
//       commands: ['npm run serve'],
//       port: 8080,
//       pollingStrategies: [{ name: 'TCP' }, { name: 'HTTP' }]
//     },
//     build: {
//       commands: ['vue-cli-service build'],
//       directory: 'dist'
//     },
//     env: {},
//     plugins: []
//   }
// ]

console.log(await hasFramework('vue', { projectDir: './path/to/vue/website' }))
// true

console.log(await getFramework('vue', { projectDir: './path/to/vue/website' }))
// {
//   id: 'vue',
//   name: 'Vue.js',
//   category: 'frontend_framework',
//   dev: {
//     commands: ['npm run serve'],
//     port: 8080,
//     pollingStrategies: [{ name: 'TCP' }, { name: 'HTTP' }]
//   },
//   build: {
//     commands: ['vue-cli-service build'],
//     directory: 'dist'
//   },
//   env: {},
//   plugins: []
// }
```

# Installation

```bash
npm install @netlify/framework-info
```

# Usage (Node.js)

## listFrameworks(options?)

`options`: `object?`\
_Return value_: `Promise<object[]>`

### Options

#### projectDir

_Type_: `string`\
_Default value_: `process.cwd()`

Path to the website's directory.

### Return value

This returns a `Promise` resolving to an array of objects describing each framework. The array can be empty, contain a
single object or several objects.

Each object has the following properties.

#### id

_Type_: `string`

Id such as `"gatsby"`.

## name

_Type_: `string`

Framework name such as `"Gatsby"`.

#### category

_Type_: `string`

Category among `"static_site_generator"`, `"frontend_framework"` and `"build_tool"`.

#### dev

_Type_: `object`

Information about the dev command.

##### commands

_Type_: `string[]`

Dev command. There might be several alternatives.

##### port

_Type_: `number`

Server port.

##### pollingStrategies

_Type_: `object[]`

Polling strategies to use when checking if the dev server is ready.

#### build

_Type_: `object`

Information about the build command.

##### commands

_Type_: `string[]`

Build command. There might be several alternatives.

##### directory

_Type_: `string`

Relative path to the directory where files are built.

#### staticAssetsDirectory

_Type_: `string`

Directory where the framework stores static assets. Can be `undefined`.

#### env

_Type_: `object`

Environment variables that should be set when calling the dev command.

#### plugins

_Type_: `string[]`

A list of recommend Netlify build plugins to install for the framework.

## hasFramework(frameworkId, options?)

`options`: `object?`\
_Return value_: `Promise<boolean>`

Same as [`listFramework()`](#listframeworksoptions) except only for a specific framework and returns a boolean.

## getFramework(frameworkId, options?)

`options`: `object?`\
_Return value_: `Promise<object>`

Same as [`listFramework()`](#listframeworksoptions) except the framework is passed as argument instead of being
detected. A single framework object is returned.

# Usage (CLI)

```bash
$ framework-info [projectDirectory]
```

This prints the ids of each framework.

If known is found, `unknown` is printed.

Available flags:

- `--long`: Show more information about each framework. The output will be a JSON array.

# Add or update a framework

Each framework is a JSON file in the `/src/frameworks/` directory. For example:

```json
{
  "id": "gatsby",
  "name": "Gatsby",
  "category": "static_site_generator",
  "detect": {
    "npmDependencies": ["gatsby"],
    "excludedNpmDependencies": [],
    "configFiles": ["gatsby-config.js"]
  },
  "dev": {
    "command": "gatsby develop",
    "port": 8000,
    "pollingStrategies": [{ "name": "TCP" }, { "name": "HTTP" }]
  },
  "build": {
    "command": "gatsby build",
    "directory": "public"
  },
  "staticAssetsDirectory": "static",
  "env": { "GATSBY_LOGGER": "yurnalist" },
  "plugins": []
}
```

All properties are required.

## id

_Type_: `string`

Id of the framework.

## name

_Type_: `string`

Name of the framework.

## category

_Type_: `string`

One of `"static_site_generator"`, `"frontend_framework"` or `"build_tool"`.

## detect

_Type_: `object`

Information used to detect this framework

### npmDependencies

_Type_: `string[]`

Framework's npm packages. Any project with one of those packages in their `package.json` (`dependencies` or
`devDependencies`) will be considered as using the framework.

If empty, this is ignored.

### excludedNpmDependencies

_Type_: `string[]`

Inverse of `npmDependencies`. If any project is using one of those packages, it will not be considered as using the
framework.

If empty, this is ignored.

### configFiles

_Type_: `string[]`

Framework's configuration files. Those should be paths relative to the [project's directory](#projectdir). Any project
with one of configuration files will be considered as using the framework.

If empty, this is ignored.

## dev

_Type_: `object`

Parameters to detect the dev command.

### command

_Type_: `string`

Default dev command.

### port

_Type_: `number`

Local dev server port.

### pollingStrategies

_Type_: `object[]`

Polling strategies to use when checking if the dev server is ready.

## build

_Type_: `object`

Parameters to detect the build command.

### command

_Type_: `string`

Default build command.

### directory

_Type_: `string`

Directory where built files are written to.

## staticAssetsDirectory

_Type_: `string`

Directory where the framework stores static assets where relevant for the framework.

## env

_Type_: `object`

Environment variables that should be set when running the dev command.

## plugins

_Type_: `object[]`

A list of Netlify build plugins package names and conditions. If a condition is met for a plugin it will be returned in
the framework's plugin's list.

For example

```json
{
  "plugins": [
    {
      "packageName": "@netlify/plugin-nextjs",
      "condition": { "minNodeVersion": "10.13.0" }
    }
  ]
}
```
